Hello, we are Marcos Sánchez Rosillo
and Cristian Martínez Hernández,
students of Biomedical Engineering at the
University of Alicante, and in this presentation,
we will explain what color blindness is, its types,
genetic causes, and how it affects color perception
in people who have it. In this slide, I’ll give a brief
introduction on what color blindness is.
Color blindness is a visual disorder that
affects the way people perceive colors.
Basically, those who have it
struggle to distinguish certain colors,
especially between red and green.
This disorder was first studied by
John Dalton, a scientist who, interestingly,
was also colorblind. His research gave
this condition its name and led
to a better understanding in the scientific field.
As for its causes, color blindness has
a significant genetic component. Most cases are
inherited in a recessive manner through
the X chromosome, which makes it more common in
men, as they have only one X chromosome and,
if it is affected, they manifest the condition.
There are different types of color blindness,
each related to the lack of perception of certain colors.
Protanopia implies difficulty in seeing red,
while deuteranopia affects
the perception of green. Tritanopia
causes problems in distinguishing
blue. Finally, achromatism is the most extreme case,
where one only sees in black, white, or gray tones.
These types vary in intensity and affect
how each person perceives the world.